# Binary-Classifier-for-Imbalanced-Data-Stream
A binary classifier model to be run on two different datasets

Most of the Classifiers in supervised learning predict accurately for balanced data sets. But when dealt with imbalanced data set, it intends to be biased towards majority class thus ignoring the minority class. Learning from imbalanced data has conventionally been conducted on stationary data sets. Recently, there have been several methods proposed for mining imbalanced data streams. Training data is read in consecutive chunks, each of which is considered as a conventional imbalanced data set called data streams. We will be working on the problem of classifying imbalanced data streams in binary classifiers. Dealing with imbalanced datasets entails strategies such as improving classification algorithms or balancing classes in the training data (data pre-processing) before providing the data as input to the machine learning algorithm.
Many practical classification tasks involve dealing with imbalanced class distributions, such as detection of fraudulent credit card transactions and diagnosis of rare diseases. Therefore, sampling methods can easily be performed to make data chunks class-balanced, such as over-sampling by generating synthetic minority class instances, oversampling by reusing historical training instances, and under-sampling by clustering the majority class.
The issues in imbalanced data stream contain the non availability of class labels, the emergence of new classes according to the input data and also the fading of existing classes. We will be finding a method via which we will classify the data so that it belongs to the appropriate class by not being biased towards the majority class and not considering the minority class as noise.
